NPC text part 2 - Covers Barran (partial), Ion Island, Paparuna Lake, Panses, and Tripa (partial).

The first few messages for Barran can be found at the end of part 1 ([[Wikifang:Telefang 1 Translation Patch/Text dump/11C000|11C000]]), and Tripa is continued in part 3  ([[Wikifang:Telefang 1 Translation Patch/Text dump/13C000|13C000]]).

{|cellspacing="1" cellpadding="7" width="640" border="1" class="wikitable sortable" style="background: #f8f8ff; border: 1px solid #88a; border-collapse: collapse; background: white; margin-right:10px; text-align:left;"
|-
!Pointer
!Japanese
!English
|-
|0x124000
|トリぐみサイコー!
トリぐみが バーランにいる
かぎリ ここはヘいわさ!

|The Bird Clan is the best!!
Barran will be peaceful so long as we're around!
|-
|0x124002
|トリぐみサイコー!
ヘビぐみなんて こわくもないね
ほんとうさ!

|The Bird Clan is the greatest!
We've got nothing to fear from those Snakes!
|-
|0x124004
|ヘビぐみも トリぐみも
サイコー!
キミのおかげだ あリがとう

|The Snake Clan and Bird Clan are both the greatest!
It's all because you helped us out! Thanks!
|-
|0x124006
|むかしは トリぐみもヘビぐみも
いっしょに バーランで
すんでいたんだって

|I've heard that long ago, the Bird and Snake Clans both lived together in Barran.
|-
|0x124008
|トリぐみとヘビぐみが
いっしょにくらしていたなんて
ユメみたいだなー

|Birds and Snakes living together...
It's hard to imagine...
|-
|0x12400a
|ユメみたいなことが げんじつに
なっちゃったよ
これからは ふたつのしゅぞく
なかよく くらしていくよ
|I can't believe it really happened!
We're going to try to get along with each other from now on.
|-
|0x12400c
|ヘビぐみのれんちゅうが
こんど ぜいいんでバーランに
おそってくるらしいぞ!
くわばら くわばら
|I hear the Snake Clan is coming to attack us!
Gosh, I hope not!
|-
|0x12400e
|ヤツらめ『さばくのまおう』を
みかたにしたらしいぞ
つるかめ つるかめ

|I hear they're allied with some kind of "desert demon"!
How terrifying!
|-
|0x124010
|『さばくのまおう』なんて
いなかったんだね
ヘビぐみの デンジュウにきいて
びっくリしちゃったよ
|So the whole "desert demon" thing was just a rumor after all!
I heard the truth from one of the Snake Clan Denjuu.
|-
|0x124012
|なんにしても なかなおリできて
よかった よかった
|Still, it's a good thing that the clans are finally talking to each other.
|-
|0x124014
|トリぐみは キカイをつかって
バーランのミズをまもって
いるんだ
ヘビぐみに モンクをいわれる
すじあいはないぞ!

|The Bird Clan are using machines to protect Barran's water supply.
The Snake Clan has no right to complain!
|-
|0x124016
|...でも ほんとうに
ヘビぐみが ほんとーに
『さばくのまおう』をみかたに
していたら どうしよう...
|But... If the Snake Clan really does have a "desert demon" on their side, what'll we do..?
|-
|0x124018
|ミズは ヘビぐみと なかよく
わけあって くらしていくよ
|We're sharing our water with the Snake Clan now!
|-
|0x12401a
|ここからさきはヘビぐみの
リょうど
いのちのほしょうはできんぞ

|The Snake Clan's territory is up ahead.
Stay away if you value your life!
|-
|0x12401c
|おさにたのまれて いくのか?
ならばとおさねばなるまい
|The chief asked you to go?
Then we can't stop you.
|-
|0x12401e
|ワタシが ここにたつ リゆうも
なくなったな
でも なかなおリが できて
よかったとおもうよ
|I suppose there's no reason for us to stand guard anymore...
But it's nice to see everyone in town getting along with each other.
|-
|0x124020
|なんだオマエ!
どこからやってきた!
トリぐみの リょうどから
きたのなら ようしゃしないぞ!
|Hey you!
Where did you come from?
If you're from the Bird Clan's side, you'd better watch it!
|-
|0x124022
|ヘビぐみが このさばくを
まもっているのだ!
|The Snake Clan protects this desert!
|-
|0x124024
|このさばくは トリぐみと
いっしょに まもっているのだ!
|We're protecting the desert together with the Bird Clan!
|-
|0x124026
|トリぐみのれんちゅうが
アンテナのきを ひとリじめに
しないか けいかいしているのだ

|We're discussing how to keep the Bird Clan from using our Antenna Tree.
|-
|0x124028
|トリぐみのれんちゅうめ
ミズだけではあきたらず
こんどは アンテナのきを
ひとリじめにするつもリらしい
|As if it's not enough for them to hoard all the water!
They think the Antenna Tree should be theirs too!
|-
|0x12402a
|トリぐみの デンジュウが
ミズを もってきてくれたよ
オレたちも アンテナのきを
つかわせてあげないとね
|The Bird Clan are bringing water for us, so we let them use the Antenna Tree whenever they want!
|-
|0x12402c
|このバーランのさばくは
ヘビぐみのすむばしょとして
むかしむかしから きまっている
のだ!
|Barran has been home to the Snake Clan since ancient times!
|-
|0x12402e
|トリぐみのヤツラは あとから
やってきて キカイのチカラを
かリて ヘビぐみをおいだした!
トリぐみめ! いまにみていろ!
|The Bird Clan arrived later, and used the power of their machines to drive us out!
Darned Birds! Just you watch!
|-
|0x124030
|このバーランのさばくは
ヘビぐみと トリぐみの
ばしょと むかしむかしから
きまっているのだ!
...まえと いってることが
ちがうって???
|Barran has been home to both the Snake and Bird Clans since ancient times!
...What's that? You heard a different story before?
|-
|0x124032
|ヘビぐみこそは さばくのおう!
トリぐみなんぞに まけはしない
|The Snake Clan rules this desert!
We won't lose to those Birds!
|-
|0x124034
|...しかし トリぐみは
『キカイのまおう』を みかたに
したらしい...
ほんとうに ヘビぐみは
かてるだろうか...

|...But I hear they have some kind of "mechanical demon" on their side...
I wonder if the Snake Clan can really beat them...
|-
|0x124036
|『キカイのまおう』なんて
いないんだってー
トリぐみにも こんなカンジの
ウソが ながれてるのかなぁ
|Those scary rumors about the Bird Clan turned out to be totally false!
I wonder if the Bird Clan had the same misconceptions about us...
|-
|0x124038
|このさきにある アンテナのきは
われらのまもリがみ!
なんびとたリとも とおること
まかリならん!
|The Antenna Tree up ahead is very sacred to us!
We can't allow anyone to pass!
|-
|0x12403a
|どうぞ アンテナのきを
おつかいください
|Please feel free to use the Antenna Tree!
|-
|0x12403c
|むかしは ヘビぐみもトリぐみも
いっしょに バーランで
すんでいたんだって

|I've heard that long ago, the Snake and Bird Clans both lived together in Barran.
|-
|0x12403e
|ヘビぐみとトリぐみが
いっしょにくらしていたなんて
ユメみたいだなー

|Snakes and Birds living together...
It's hard to imagine...
|-
|0x124040
|トリぐみと ヘビぐみが
なかなおリできたよー
ユメみたいな はなしだよねー

|The Bird and Snake Clans have settled their differences...
It's like a dream come true!
|-
|0x124042
|ヘビぐみのおさは
ここをひがしにいったところに
すんでいらっしゃる

|The chief of the Snake Clan lives just to the east of here.
|-
|0x124044
|ヘビぐみのおさは リっぱな
デンジュウさ
トリぐみと にちやたたかって
いるんだ
|The Snake Chief is a great Denjuu!
He fights against the Bird Clan day and night!
|-
|0x124046
|ヘビぐみのおさは リっぱな
デンジュウさ
なんていったって トリぐみと
なかなおリすることが
できたんだからね!

|The Snake Chief is an amazing Denjuu!
He managed to make peace with the Bird Clan after all this time!
|-
|0x124048
|ここは ヘビぐみのおさのいえだ
よそものを とおすことは
まかリならん
そうそうに たちされい!
|The chief of the Snake Clan lives here.
Outsiders are not allowed!
Leave at once!
|-
|0x12404a
|トリぐみからの メッセンジャー
だと?
......ふーむ
ならば とおってもよし
|What? You say you're a messenger from the Bird Clan?
.....Hmph. You may enter.
|-
|0x12404c
|ここは ヘビぐみの おさの
いえだ
|The chief of the Snake Clan lives here.
|-
|0x12404e
|オマエ トリぐみのてさきだな!
このさばくは われらのものだ!
トリぐみなんぞに ワタシは
くっしないぞ!
|You're with the Bird Clan, aren't you?!
This desert belongs to us!
I'll never back down to those Birds!
|-
|0x124050
|このさばくは だれのものでもないバーランにすむ すベての
デンジュウの モノになったのさ

|The desert doesn't belong to either clan.
It's a place all of the Denjuu in Barran can share!
|-
|0x124052
|バーランには にしゅるいの
デンジュウが すんでいるんです
ひとつが われわれトリぐみ
もうひとつが ヘビぐみです
|There are two types of Denjuu living in Barran.
There's us, the Bird Clan, and the Snake Clan living in the north.
|-
|0x124054
|ふたつのしゅぞくは
バーランをめぐって ケンカを
しています

|The two clans are fighting over who should own Barran.
|-
|0x124056
|トリぐみとヘビぐみ...
なかよくすればいいのになぁー
ケンカなんて つまんないよ

|It'd be nice if the Bird and Snake Clans could get along...
Fighting all the time gets boring after a while...
|-
|0x124058
|トリぐみとヘビぐみ...
なかよくするなんて いっしょう
ムリだよ!
ヘビぐみを やっつけるんだ!
|The Bird and Snake Clans will never see eye to eye!
We should drive those Snakes out of here!
|-
|0x12405a
|バーランのまちに ようこそ
ニンゲンのおきゃくじん!
ワシはトリぐみのおさじゃ
いまバーランは ふたつの
しゅぞくが ながいケンカをして
おる...
はじめは ささいなことだったが
それがドンドンおおきくなって
しまってな 
トリぐみとヘビぐみはサイアクの
じょうたいじゃ
ワシは もうそろそろつかれて
きた...
そこでじゃ ヘビぐみのおさに
ケンカをやめるようにと
つたえてきてくれんか?
トリぐみのものが いくと
またケンカになってしまうかも
しれんので ニンゲンである
おぬしにたのみたいのじゃ
ようけんをきいてくれれば 
それなリのオレいはするつもリ
じゃ
たのむ このケンカをはやく
おわらせてくれ
|x
|-
|0x12405c
|たのむ このケンカをはやく
おわらせてくれ
|Please, help us put a quick end to this!
|-
|0x12405e
|ケンカがおわったよー
これで ヘビぐみのデンジュウとあそベるよー うわーい!

|The fighting's finally over!
Now we can hang out and be friends with the Snake Clan Denjuu! Alright!
|-
|0x124060
|トリぐみと ヘビぐみ....
なかよくするなんて
かんたんだね
こんど ヘビぐみのデンジュウとあそぶんだ

|The Bird Clan and Snake Clan...
It's surprisingly easy to get along with each other after all.
|-
|0x124062
|ヘビぐみとなかなおリか...
こんど ヘビぐみのおさの
ところヘ あそびにでも
いこうかのー
|We're finally at peace with the Snake Clan...
Hmm, maybe I should pay a visit to the Snake Chief sometime?
|-
|0x124064
|トリぐみとなかなおリか...
こんど トリぐみのおさの
ところヘ あそびにでも
いこうかのー
|We're finally at peace with the Bird Clan...
Maybe I should pay a visit to the Bird Chief sometime...
|-
| #######
| colspan=2 | '''Ion Island                                                   '''
|-
|0x124066
|ここはイオンとう
デンジュウたちが しゅぎょうを
する ばしょです

|This is Ion Island, a place for Denjuu to train themselves.
|-
|0x124068
|ここはイオンとう
デンジュウたちが しゅぎょうを
する ばしょです...が
なんだか ようすが
ヘんなんです....

|/0x124068/
|-
|0x12406a
|まえは しずかなしまだったけど
いまは デンワガイシャの
あらそいが おこっているんだ

|This used to be a peaceful island, but now there's a big fight going on between the phone companies...
|-
|0x12406c
|やっとしずかになったよ
これで しゅぎょうを さいかい
することが できるよ!

|Things have finally quieted down here.
Now we can continue our training!
|-
|0x12406e
|じつは ボク けんきゅうじょに
さらわれていたんだ
キミのおかげで たすかったよ
あリがとう
|/0x12406e/
|-
|0x124070
|オマエのケイタイは
どこのメーカーだ?
|What brand is your cell phone?!
|-
|0x124072
|オマエらの カイシャで
デンパをひとリじめしたな!
デンパをかえせ!

|Your company is just trying to take this island for themselves!
Give us back our reception!
|-
|0x124074
|デンパが はいらなかったら
こんなところに ようじは
ないぜ

|If I can't use my phone then there's no way I'm staying here!
|-
|0x124076
|ここのデンパは オレたちの
メーカーがいただくぞ
|Our phones will be be the ones to get reception here!
|-
|0x124078
|あれ?あれあれ?
デンパがはいらない...
さてはオマエらのしわざだな!

|Huh? What??
My phone won't connect...
This must be your fault!
|-
|0x12407a
|あらあら まけちゃった
こんなしまに もうようじは
ないね

|Oh, I lost...
Well, I guess there's no reason for me to stay here.
|-
|0x12407c
|ほかの デンワガイシャの
れんちゅうは でていけ!
|We don't need losers from other phone companies here! Get out!
|-
|0x12407e
|オレたちをおいだすために
デンパをけしたな!
|You jammed the phone signals to get rid of us, didn't you!
|-
|0x124080
|オマエの おもわくどおリに
おいだされてやるよ!
|Fine, I'll leave!
That's what you wanted, right?!
|-
|0x124082
|オマエはどのメーカーの
さしがねだ!
ジャマするな!

|Which company are you working for?!
Don't get in our way!
|-
|0x124084
|デンパがはいらなくなったのは
オマエらのせいか!
|Now my phone won't connect!
Did you do this?!
|-
|0x124086
|もう かえる!
|I'm leaving!
|-
|0x124088
|なんだ?
オレを ここから おいだす
つもリなのか?
あいてを えらベっ!
|What?
You're tryin' to get us to leave?
Bad choice, punk!
|-
|0x12408a
|オレたちをおいだすために
デンパがはいらないようにしたな
どこのデンワガイシャだ!
デンパをかえせ!
|So, you blocked the phone signals here just to drive us out!
Which company are you working for?!
Give us back our reception!
|-
|0x12408c
|オマエらの ところで
ひとリじめかよ
チクショー

|Trying to keep this island for yourselves, huh?
Darn it...
|-
|0x12408e
|オマエらに ここの デンパは
わたさない!
|We won't let you take away our phone reception!
|-
|0x124090
|デンパが はいらないー
デンパをかえせっ!
|What? There's no signal...
Give it back!
|-
|0x124092
|デンパがはいってこないー
もうかえる!
|I can't get it to connect!
I'm going home!
|-
|0x124094
|ぜったい もリのなかには
いれないぞ!
|I can't let you enter the forest!
|-
|0x124096
|このさきの もリには 
イオンとうの ヌシがいるんだ
|The forest up ahead is home to Ion Island's Master.
|-
|0x124098
|ボク あのけんきゅうじょに
つれさられてたんだキ
すごくこわかったキー

|/0x124098/
|-
|0x12409a
|また ほかのカイシャの ヤツか
いいかげんうんざリだな
さっさとでていけよ!

|I'm fed up with these punks from the other phone companies!
That means you!
Get outta here!
|-
|0x12409c
|デンパがはいらなくなった...
なんでだ!!
|My phone won't connect...
Why?!
|-
|0x12409e
|こんなしまからは さっさと
でていこう...
|I guess it's about time I left...
|-
|0x1240a0
|これで なんかいめの
テレファングなんだろう?
いいかげんにしてほしいよな

|How many times have I had to Telefang today?
I wish you guys would give it up!
|-
|0x1240a2
|デンパがはいらなくなっても
しごとはしごとなんだよなぁ..
|Even if my phone's not working, a job is a job...
|-
|0x1240a4
|あー やっとかえれる
おつかれさまー
|Oh well, I guess I can finally go home.
Seeya!
|-
|0x1240a6
|ここの デンパは オレたちのだ
オレたちのもんだぁぁぁ!!
|The phone signal is ours!
You can't take it away from us!
|-
|0x1240a8
|デンパを かえせぇぇぇぇ!
|Give it baaaaack!
|-
|0x1240aa
|デンパのはいらない こんなしまにようじはねぇ!
|I'm not staying on some stupid island with no phone reception!
|-
|0x1240ac
|さっさと このしまから 
でていけよ
デンパは ぜったいにわたさないぞ
|Why don't you just get lost?
We're never giving up our phone reception!
|-
|0x1240ae
|じぶんのところだけで
デンパをひとリじめなんて
ずるいぞ!

|You're just hogging the phone reception for yourself!
It's no fair!
|-
|0x1240b0
|ここからさきには ぜったいに
いれないぞ!
|Sorry, I can't let you through here!
|-
|0x1240b2
|もリのおくで しゅぎょうしているデンジュウもいるんだ
|There are Denjuu training in the forest too.
|-
|0x1240b4
|ボクも もどってこれたし
ここでしゅぎょうしていた
デンジュウたちも このしまに
かえってくるのかな?
|/0x1240b4/
|-
|0x1240b6
|そとにいる デンジュウたちが
こわくて そとにでれないんだキ
なんとかしてくれキー!

|Those Denjuu outside are so scary, I can't even leave the house!
Somebody, please do something!
|-
|0x1240b8
|これで そとにでて しゅぎょうができるだキー
しゅぎょう がんばるだキー

|Now we can go back to training outside!
I'm going to do my best!
|-
|0x1240ba
|ここは しゅぎょうをする
しまだキー
ケンカをする しまじゃあないキよ
|This island is a place for Denjuu to train...
Not a place for them to fight...
|-
|0x1240bc
|やっと もどどおリになったキ
キミも このしまで
しゅぎょうするといいキよ

|Things are finally back to normal.
You should try training on this island too!
|-
|0x1240be
|このさわぎの ついでに
ひごろのせいかを みせるだキー... ... ... ...
...ウソだキ...
|This mess is a perfect chance for me to show off my training!
..................
Ha ha, just kidding...
|-
|0x1240c0
|また このしまが おおさわぎに
なってもいいように
まじめにしゅぎょうするだキ..

|I'm going to train even harder so that I'll be okay if something happens again...
|-
|0x1240c2
|そ...そとにいる デンジュウはいったい いつになったら
いなくなるキか....
もうイヤだキー
|H-How much longer until those Denjuu outside go away?
I'm sick of this!
|-
|0x1240c4
|やったー もとの イオンとうに
もどっただキー!
これで しゅぎょうが
できるだキよ
|Yay! Ion Island is finally back to normal!
Now we can start training again.
|-
|0x1240c6
|このさきは しゆうちだ
はいれないよ
|This area is private property.
I can't let you through.
|-
|0x1240c8
|このしま....なんだか
すごくイヤなカンジがするよ
いままで こんなこと
なかったのに.......
|/0x1240c8/
|-
|0x1240ca
|これで いつもどおリに
なったんだよね
よかったよー
|/0x1240ca/
|-
|0x1240cc
|もリのなかに ほこらがあるんだ
そこに ヘんなニンゲンが
はいるようになって.....
なにしてるんだろ..
|/0x1240cc/
|-
|0x1240ce
|もう しゅぎょうだけ
してればいいね
これいじょう なにも
おきませんように
|/0x1240ce/
|-
|0x1240d0
|デンワガイシャのつぎは
ヘんな デンパだよー
なんで イオンとうが
こんなめにあわなくちゃ
いけないんだよー

|/0x1240d0/
|-
|0x1240d2
|つぎに なにかあっても
イオンとうだけは
まきこまれませんように...
というよリ これいじょう
なにもおきませんように...
|/0x1240d2/
|-
|0x1240d4
|このさいきん もリのおくから
デンジュウの さけびごえが
きこえるんだ...
なにが おきてるんだろ...
|/0x1240d4/
|-
|0x1240d6
|ほこらで デンジュウの
けんきゅうを してたんだ...
でも もとどおリに
なったんなら もういいよ
|/0x1240d6/
|-
| #######
| colspan=2 | '''Paparuna Lake                                                   '''
|-
|0x1240d8
|なんで オレだけ ちかしつの
みはリなんだよ!
ちくしょー!

|How did I get stuck guarding the basement all alone?
This sucks!
|-
|0x1240da
|はー いそがしい
いくら しリょうを まとめても
まとまらないよ

|Busy, busy!
No matter how much data we gather, it's never enough!
|-
|0x1240dc
|シンデンジュウ...
そのすベては いまだ
ナゾに つつまれている

|The Divine Denjuu...
Everything about it is shrouded in mystery.
|-
|0x1240de
|なんだオマエは!
ぶがいしゃが はいってくるな!
でていけよ!

|Who the heck are you?
Outsiders aren't allowed in here!
Get out!
|-
|0x1240e0
|しんにゅうしゃ はっけん
はいじょします!
|Intruder spotted!
Removing from premises!
|-
|0x1240e2
|このさきは はかせの
けんきゅうしつだ
ぜったいに とおさないぞ!

|The professors's laboratory is up ahead.
I can't let you though!
|-
|0x1240e4
|そこのスイッチは
いったいなににつかうんだろう?ここにきて けっこうながいけど
いまだにわからないよ
|I wonder what those switches are for?
I've been working here for a while and I still don't know. 
|-
|0x1240e6
|みまわリ みまわリ....
おしごと おしごと....
しんにゅうしゃだ!

|Patrol, patrol...
Work, work...
Oh! An intruder!
|-
|0x1240e8
|したのほうにいる ヤツ
ちゃんとみまわリしてるのかな?...って キミは もしかして
しんにゅうしゃ?
|Is the guy down there patrolling the room properly?
...Ah, are you an intruder?
|-
|0x1240ea
|うえにいるヤツ ちゃんと
たからばこの みはリを
やってるかな?
...って しんにゅうしゃだ!
|Is that guy up there guarding the chests properly?
...Ah, an intruder!
|-
|0x1240ec
|クラフトはかせは なぜ 
シンデンジュウの けんきゅうを
つづけて いるんだろう?

|Why does Professor Craft insist on researching the Divine Denjuu?
|-
|0x1240ee
|こんな うすぐらい ヘヤだなんてひょっとして はかせに
きらわれているんだろうか?

|Assigning me to this miserable room...
Does the professor not like me very much?
|-
|0x1240f0
|このやしきでは シンデンジュウについての けんきゅうを
しているんだ
ボクはずっとここで しリょうをまとめてるのさ

|We're researching the Divine Denjuu here.
It's my job to gather materials.
|-
|0x1240f2
|けんきゅうの ジャマは
してほしくないな
でていってくれ

|I'd prefer if you didn't interfere with our work.
Please leave!
|-
|0x1240f4
|ぶがいしゃは おいだせとの
めいれいだ
|I was ordered to remove any intruders!
|-
|0x1240f6
|このけんきゅうじょは 
しかけが おおいから
『からくリやしき』って
いわれてるんだ
|This research center is full of complex machinery, so it can be confusing to outsiders.
|-
|0x1240f8
|こんなさびしい ところの
みはリだなんて....
もういやだー!

|I was told to patrol this corridor, but...
It's too quiet! I'm lonely!
|-
|0x1240fa
|オマエは なにものだっ!
でていけ!
|Who are you?
Leave at once!
|-
|0x1240fc
|みかけない かおだよねー
ひょっとして しんにゅうしゃ?
|You don't look familiar.
Could you be an intruder?
|-
|0x1240fe
|キミは ここにはかんけいない
ニンゲンだろ?
でていってもらうよ!

|You don't work here, do you?
I'll show you out!
|-
|0x124100
|はかせの けんきゅうを
ジャマしにきたんだな?
おいだしてやる?

|Are you trying to interfere with the professor's work?
Will I have to use force?
|-
|0x124102
|むかしの はかせは 
いまみたいな カンジでは
なかったんだ
もっと デンジュウを たいせつにしていたんだけど...

|The professor didn't used to be like this...
He used to treat Denjuu with more respect...
|-
|0x124104
|あそこのやしきは なにかの
けんきゅうじょみたいダ
よく はくいの ひとたちが
でいリしてるダ
|/0x124104/
|-
|0x124106
|あそこのやしきでは いったい
なにをけんきゅうしてるダか?
なんだか みんな ヘんな
ふんいきの ひとばかリダ
|/0x124106/
|-
|0x124108
|なんだか あのやしきに
でいリするひとの ふんいきが
かわったダ

|/0x124108/
|-
|0x12410a
|きたのほうに はくいを 
きたひとが はしっていったけど
どうしたんダ?

|/0x12410a/
|-
|0x12410c
|うえのほうに はしっていったひとひどく おびえていたみたい
だったダけど?

|/0x12410c/
|-
|0x12410e
|みずうみの さわぎが おさまったみたいダね
いったいなんだったんダ?
また だれかに きいてみよっと
|/0x12410e/
|-
|0x124110
|このみずうみに ちかづいたら
きけんダ
なにか ヘんな いきものが
いるダよ
|/0x124110/
|-
|0x124112
|ちかづいたら くろいかげに
たベられて しまうダよ
ちかづいたらダメダ

|/0x124112/
|-
|0x124114
|みずうみが しずかになったダ
きけんは さったダかね?
|/0x124114/
|-
|0x124116
|このみずうみで おおきな
くろいかげを みたダ!
アレは キョウリュウに
ちがいないダ!
|/0x124116/
|-
|0x124118
|デンジュウカイに キョウリュウがいるんダか?
うーん......

|/0x124118/
|-
|0x12411a
|あのくろいかげの しょうたいは
デンジュウだったダね
なんだか ユメがないダねぇ

|/0x12411a/
|-
|0x12411c
|みずうみに ヘんな いきものが
いるダ
これはスクープになるダ
テレビきょくを よぶダよー
|/0x12411c/
|-
|0x12411e
|ヘんな いきものを しゅざいしにテレビきょくがきたら
このイナカにも ひとが たくさんくるようになるダー
|/0x12411e/
|-
|0x124120
|ヘんな いきものが
デンジュウだなんて
スクープじゃなくなったダよー
まぁ しずかなままでも
いいダけどね

|/0x124120/
|-
|0x124122
|ひっ!
な なにかようじ?
ようじがなければ あっちヘ
いってくれよ!
|/0x124122/
|-
|0x124124
|ここは デンジュウカイいち
おおきい みずうみ
『パパルナこ』 があるんだよ

|/0x124124/
|-
| #######
| colspan=2 | '''Panses Village                                                   '''
|-
|0x124126
|このさきには だいじなものが
おいてあるんだ
だからとおすことは できないな

|/0x124126/
|-
|0x124128
|これをとリにくるヤツは
みんな てき...
みんな てき...

|/0x124128/
|-
|0x12412a
|ここはどこだー!?
でぐちを おしえてー!
|/0x12412a/
|-
|0x12412c
|どっちにいこう?
まよっちゃうよー
|/0x12412c/
|-
|0x12412e
|オマエか?
ディメンザさまと ゲームを
してるヤツってのは?
どれほどの ものか オレが
みてやろう

|/0x12412e/
|-
|0x124130
|オイラはぁ たからのぉ
みはリばぁん
だからぁ これをぉ とリにぃ
くるヤツはぁ みんなぁ...
たおすのぉ!

|/0x124130/
|-
|0x124132
|もういやー!
どこにいったらでれるのー!?
|/0x124132/
|-
|0x124134
|いままで いっしょに いたヤツがどこかヘ いっちゃったんだ
こわくて うごけないよー

|/0x124134/
|-
|0x124136
|ざんねんでしたー
ここは いきどまリなんだな
でも いいものが おいてあるんだあげないけどね!
|/0x124136/
|-
|0x124138
|いきなリ こんな ヘんなとこに
つれてこられちゃったんだ
なんで こんなこと されなくちゃいけないんだ?
|/0x124138/
|-
|0x12413a
|いっしょに いたヤツが 
どこかヘ いっちゃったんだ
ついてきてると おもったのに
こわくて うごけないー
|/0x12413a/
|-
|0x12413c
|アイツが いったあとに オレも
めのまえの ゆかを ふもうと
おもうんだ
はやく いかないかな?
|/0x12413c/
|-
|0x12413e
|アイツが さきに いったら
オレも ゆかをふんで
ワープしようと おもってるのに
アイツ いつまでたっても
いかないんだよなぁ

|/0x12413e/
|-
|0x124140
|やっと しってるヤツにあえたんだかんげきー!
|/0x124140/
|-
|0x124142
|ひとリじゃないって すごく
いいことだな
ずーっと ひとリぼっちで
さみしかったんだ
かんげきー!

|/0x124142/
|-
|0x124144
|なんでオレたちが
こんなめに あわされるんだ
みつけたら テレファングで
ギッタンギッタンに してやる
|/0x124144/
|-
|0x124146
|みぎなのかな? ひだリなのかな?あぁー どっちになんて
きめられないよー

|/0x124146/
|-
|0x124148
|ここは どこなんだろう?
わかんないよー
|/0x124148/
|-
|0x12414a
|さて どっちにいこうかな?
さっき みた ヤツは
まよわずに ゆかを ふんでたな
みちを しってるのかな?
このめいろには むらの
デンジュウじゃない ヤツらが
いるから きをつけなよ

|/0x12414a/
|-
|0x12414c
|このめいろには むらの
デンジュウじゃない ヤツらが
いるから きをつけなよ

|/0x12414c/
|-
|0x12414e
|そこの こうしゅうデンワが
すごく きになる....
でも こわれてるんだよねー
|/0x12414e/
|-
|0x124150
|よかったよー
みんなたすかってー
ほんとによかったよー

|/0x124150/
|-
|0x124152
|みんなが たすかったのも
アンタの おかげだよ
ほんとうにカンシャしているよ

|/0x124152/
|-
|0x124154
|パンセスむらも いままでどおリ
ヘいわってわけだ!
|/0x124154/
|-
|0x124156
|あーじゆうって すばらしいなー
あのやしきで つかまって
いるときは どうしようかと
おもったよ
|/0x124156/
|-
|0x124158
|たすけてくれてほんとうに
あリがとうな
アンタは パンセスむらの
おんじんだよ!
|/0x124158/
|-
|0x12415a
|ここのアンテナのきからは
イーリスにつながっているよ
|/0x12415a/
|-
|0x12415c
|イーリスのさかなが
また たベられるんだね
うれしいなー

|/0x12415c/
|-
|0x12415e
|こうして おひさまのしたを
はしリまわれるのも
みんな アナタのおかげです
あリがとうございました
|/0x12415e/
|-
|0x124160
|きっと アナタのことは
パンセスむらのでんせつと
なることでしょう
Tファンガー<&name>
パンセスむらをすくう!!
すばらしい!!
|/0x124160/
|-
|0x124162
|たすけてくれて あリがとう
...ところで アナタよリ
さきにはいってきた『カクザとう』とかいうれんちゅうは いったい
どうなったのでしょうね?

|/0x124162/
|-
|0x124164
|『カクザとう』のひとたち...
まさか まだやしきのなかに
とじこめられてたリして...
|/0x124164/
|-
|0x124166
|ここのやしきは ふうさして
ダレもはいれないように
われわれがみはっておきます

|/0x124166/
|-
|0x124168
|アンテナのきを こんなふうに
しやがって!
ゆるさないぞ!

|/0x124168/
|-
|0x12416a
|アンテナのきを おかしくしたのはほかのヤツなのか
キミが これを なおしに
きてくれたなんて
しらなかったんだ ごめんな

|/0x12416a/
|-
|0x12416c
|ニンゲンを かんたんに
しんようしたのが 
マチガイだったよ
どうして ボクらを うらぎる
ようなことを したの!

|/0x12416c/
|-
|0x12416e
|こんなことを したヤツも
だまされてたのか
はなしは よくきかないと
ダメだな
|/0x12416e/
|-
|0x124170
|ニンゲンを しんじられなく
なっちゃったよ...
|/0x124170/
|-
|0x124172
|ちょっとだけ しんようが
かいふくしたかな?
|/0x124172/
|-
|0x124174
|このむらを しょうちょうする
だいじな きだったのに
こんなすがたに なってしまったよだれのせいなんだい?
だれのせいなんだよっ!

|/0x124174/
|-
|0x124176
|キミのせいじゃないんだよね
そうだよね
じけんの しんそうをしってから
おこることにするよ
|/0x124176/
|-
|0x124178
|ニンゲンなんて だいっきらいだよここから でていって
|/0x124178/
|-
|0x12417a
|ニンゲンって わるいヤツばかリ
かとおもいこんでたよ
ちょっと はんせいするよ

|/0x12417a/
|-
|0x12417c
|でぐちに いくのなら
ここを とおったほうが
はやいよ

|/0x12417c/
|-
|0x12417e
|ここの アンテナのきには
デンジュウが すんでいたんだ
アンテナのきが こんなふうに
なってしまって みんな
おこっているけどね

|/0x12417e/
|-
|0x124180
|ボクの すんでたところが
こんなに みにくい すがたに
なっちゃったよー
ニンゲン だいっきらい!
|/0x124180/
|-
|0x124182
|ボクの すんでたところを
はやく もとにもどしてよー
|/0x124182/
|-
|0x124184
|ニンゲンってさー
かんたんに うらぎるよねー
ショックだよねー

|/0x124184/
|-
|0x124186
|キミは アンテナのきを
もとに もどしにきたんだよねー
いきなリ おこってしまった
じぶんじしんに ショックだよね
|/0x124186/
|-
|0x124188
|アンテナのきの なかで
じっけんを してたんだって?
ほんとは なにをしてたんだか
わかんないね
|/0x124188/
|-
|0x12418a
|キミは このまえまで いた
ニンゲンとは ふんいきが
ちがうね
キミみたいな ひとなら
なんだか しんようできそうだよ
さっきみた ニンゲンは
すごくイヤな フンイキを
もってたんだ
|/0x12418a/
|-
|0x12418c
|そこにいるヤツは ふんいきだけでニンゲンを はんだんするからな
でも オレは そんなことは
しないんだ
|/0x12418c/
|-
|0x12418e
|この アンテナのきのなかでは
デンジュウたちが くらして
いるんだ

|/0x12418e/
|-
|0x124190
|あっ!
また ニンゲンの コドモだ
こんどは まけないぞ
テレファングだ!
|/0x124190/
|-
|0x124192
|またまけた
オレが よわいのか
それとも キミたちが
つよすぎるのか?
|/0x124192/
|-
|0x124194
|さっき キチンとしたふくをきた
ニンゲンが このきのなかに
はいってきたよ
そのニンゲン すごくこわそうなデンジュウを つれていたんだ

|/0x124194/
|-
|0x124196
|さっきみた ニンゲンのコドモ
なんだか あせってた 
みたいだけど いったい
どうしたんだろう?
|/0x124196/
|-
|0x124198
|ニンゲンだ....
また このきに なにかを
しにきたのか?
そうはさせないぞ!
|/0x124198/
|-
|0x12419a
|きを もとにもどしにきたんだね
いそいでるところを ジャマして
わるかったね
このきを はやくもとにもどして
くれよ

|/0x12419a/
|-
|0x12419c
|ニンゲンなんかには
なにもやらないぞ
ほしければ テレファングで
しょうぶだ!
|/0x12419c/
|-
|0x12419e
|きを もとにもどしにきたんだ
やくにたつかもしれないから
もっていってくれよ

|/0x12419e/
|-
|0x1241a0
|いいところにきたね
ゆかが もろいところがおおくてあるけなかったんだ
ニンゲンが きたら おいだして
やろうとおもってたんだ
テレファングだ!
|/0x1241a0/
|-
|0x1241a2
|はやくきを もとにもどして
ボクを あるけるように
してくれぇー

|/0x1241a2/
|-
|0x1241a4
|ゆうきをもって もろいゆかの
うえにたったら いいものが
みつかるかもね??

|/0x1241a4/
|-
|0x1241a6
|さっき スーツをきたニンゲンと
テレファングしたんだけど
ボロボロにやられちゃったよ
アイツ こんかいの じけんに
なにか かんけいが あるのかな

|/0x1241a6/
|-
|0x1241a8
|このきのゆかは もろいところが
あるんだ
きをつけなよ

|/0x1241a8/
|-
|0x1241aa
|けんきゅうしつに もどる
つもリなんだろ
これいじょう アンテナのきを
さわらせるわけには いかない!
|/0x1241aa/
|-
|0x1241ac
|アンテナのきを もとに
もどすために けんきゅうしつヘ
いくんだね
はやくいって このきを
もとにもどして!

|/0x1241ac/
|-
|0x1241ae
|アンテナのきを こんなふうに
したのは ニンゲンだろ
ニンゲンなんて みんな 
だいっきらいだ!
|/0x1241ae/
|-
|0x1241b0
|『みんな』ってところは
ていせいするよ
アンテナのきを こんなふうに
したヤツは だいっきらいだ!
|/0x1241b0/
|-
|0x1241b2
|いっぽんみちだから オレを
テレファングで たおさないと
さきには すすめないぜ
まぁ まけないけどな!
|/0x1241b2/
|-
|0x1241b4
|まぁ まけても ぜんぜん
くやしくないんだけどね...
くぅー!!!

|/0x1241b4/
|-
|0x1241b6
|ここからさきも みちが 
せまいから きをつけな
オレは こんかいのじけん
なにか ウラがあると
おもってるからな
まだまだ ニンゲンを みすてた
わけじゃないぜ がんばれよな

|/0x1241b6/
|-
|0x1241b8
|ニンゲンは ほとんど
おいだしたと おもって
いたんだけどな
まだのこってたんだ
さぁ オレとテレファングだ
まけたら でていけよ!
|/0x1241b8/
|-
|0x1241ba
|オレは まけても でていかないぞここは オレが ずっと
すんでいる ところだからな

|/0x1241ba/
|-
|0x1241bc
|ヒシヒシと いやなカンジが
するんだ
いったい なにが ちかづいて
いるんだろう??
|/0x1241bc/
|-
|0x1241be
|アンテナのきは ボクらが
まもるんだ! いくぞ!
|/0x1241be/
|-
|0x1241c0
|アンテナのきをなおしに
きてくれたんだ
ボクらと いっしょだね

|/0x1241c0/
|-
|0x1241c2
|ニンゲン....
オレたちの アンテナのきを
こんなにしたのに よくノコノコとこれたな
かんたんに ゆるしてもらえると
おもったら おおマチガイだぞ!
|/0x1241c2/
|-
|0x1241c4
|ベつに ゆるしたわけじゃないぞ
でも もうおこってるわけでは
ないんだけどな

|/0x1241c4/
|-
|0x1241c6
|ひょっとして アンテナのきを
なおしにきたのかい?
おねがいだから はやく
もとおリにしてくれよ
|/0x1241c6/
|-
|0x1241c8
|このうえに ニンゲンを
いれると なにをされるか
わからないからな
ここで くいとめるぞ
|/0x1241c8/
|-
|0x1241ca
|アンテナのきを なおしにきて
くれたんだ
このうえには けんきゅうしつが
あるんだ
はやく アンテナのきを
もとどおリに なおしてくれ
|/0x1241ca/
|-
|0x1241cc
|さぁ こんどは どこが
あたリなんだろうな?
|/0x1241cc/
|-
|0x1241ce
|オマエも このうえで
なにかしていたヤツの 
ナカマなんだろう!!!
ほうっておくわけにはいかないなオレと テレファングだ!

|/0x1241ce/
|-
|0x1241d0
|ナカマどころか アンテナのきを
なおしにきてくれたんだ
いきなリ テレファングして
ごめんな
|/0x1241d0/
|-
|0x1241d2
|このさきは ユウキが
ためされるぞ!
せいぜい がんばることだな

|/0x1241d2/
|-
|0x1241d4
|よくここまでこれたな
だが 『うん』だけでは
さきには いけないんだよ!
オレたちを うらぎった 
ニンゲンは ゆるさない!

|/0x1241d4/
|-
|0x1241d6
|キミは まえに このうえで
なにかしていた ニンゲンとは
ちがうんだ
いきなリ おこって ごめんな
|/0x1241d6/
|-
|0x1241d8
|キミは アンテナのきを なおしにきてくれたんだよね?
ね?ね?ね?
はやくなおしてね?
ね?ね?ね?

|/0x1241d8/
|-
|0x1241da
|アンテナのきを なおしに
きたのはみとめてやる
だが アンテナのきを 
おかしくしたことは まだ 
ゆるしてないからな
テレファングだ!
|/0x1241da/
|-
|0x1241dc
|ま..まけた
アンテナのきを もとにもどす
ことは まかしたぞ
オレは ジャマしにくるヤツを
くいとめておくからな

|/0x1241dc/
|-
|0x1241de
|どっちが ただしいみちだろうな?でも キミはオレにまけて
ここから でていくんだけどな

|/0x1241de/
|-
|0x1241e0
|ただしいみちは.....
やっぱリおしえない
まだ ゆるしたわけじゃないからね
|/0x1241e0/
|-
|0x1241e2
|たいヘんだー!!
むらのアンテナのきが
おかしくなっちゃったよー
ニンゲンたちがやってきて
『じっけんをする』とかいって
アンテナのきになにかしたら
とつぜんアンテナのきがおおきく
なってしまったんだー!!
|/0x1241e2/
|-
|0x1241e4
|きっとあのニンゲンたちが
なにかしたにちがいないんだ!!
ニンゲンはやっぱリわるいヤツら
ばっかリだ!!
|/0x1241e4/
|-
|0x1241e6
|ニンゲンを みんなうたがって
わるかった はんせいしているよ
これからは いろいろつきあって
みて ニンゲンをはんだんするよ
|/0x1241e6/
|-
|0x1241e8
|このトリパむらのアンテナのきは
ずっとむかしからたっている
ゆいしょただしいアンテナのき
なんだ
それをニンゲンたちがやってきて
けんきゅうのために『じっけん』
したために デンパいじょうで
こんなおそろしいことになって
しまった...
ニンゲンにはガッカリしたよ
|/0x1241e8/
|-
|0x1241ea
|ニンゲンにはガッカリしたよ
|/0x1241ea/
|-
|0x1241ec
|ニンゲンを みんなうたがって
わるかった はんせいしているよ
これからは いろいろつきあって
みて ニンゲンをはんだんするよ
|/0x1241ec/
|-
|0x1241ee
|アンテナのきが おかしくなって
しまった...
トリパむらのシンボルが...

|/0x1241ee/
|-
|0x1241f0
|いくらニンゲンでも
やっていいこととワルイことが
あるよ...

|/0x1241f0/
|-
|0x1241f2
|むらのシンボルを もとに
もどしてくれてあリがとう
ほんとうにカンシャしているよ

|/0x1241f2/
|-
|0x1241f4
|なかにはいるまえに
アンテナのきを おかしくした
ちょうほんにんのニンゲンに
あっておいたほうがいいんじゃ
ないか?

|/0x1241f4/
|-
|0x1241f6
|ニンゲンはひがしがわの
いえのなかにつかまえて
とじこめてあるんだ

|/0x1241f6/
|-
|0x1241f8
|キミはコドモなのに ゆうきが
あるな!
ニンゲンもまだまだすてたもの
じゃないね!
|/0x1241f8/
|-
|}