Text bank 0x4b - Story text for Kurinon village, Iris, Freesia, Barran, and part of Ion Island. 

Continued from [[Wikifang:Telefang 1 Translation Patch/Text dump/120000|120000]], continued in [[Wikifang:Telefang 1 Translation Patch/Text dump/138000|138000]].

{|cellspacing="1" cellpadding="7" width="640" border="1" class="wikitable sortable" style="background: #f8f8ff; border: 1px solid #88a; border-collapse: collapse; background: white; margin-right:10px; text-align:left;"
|-
!Pointer
!Japanese
!English
|-
|0x12c000
|カギを ぬすんだ はんにんの
こころあたリは ないの?
|You can't think of anyone who might have stolen it?
|-
|0x12c002
|... ... ... ...
... ... ... ...
|................
................
|-
|0x12c004
|..........そうダス
そういえば むらのあちこちに
ヘんなニンゲンと みなれない
デンジュウがいたダス
アイツらが カギを 
ぬすんだに ちがいないダス!
おねがいダス 
『アンテナのき』の カギを
とリかえして ほしいダス!

|........... Well, now that you mention it, there have been a lot of weird humans and Denjuu I don't recognize around lately, man.
They must have been the ones who stole the key, man!
Please, man!
Could you get the key to the Antenna Tree back from them?
|-
|0x12c006
|じぶんで とリかえせば
いいじゃないか
|Can't you just do it yourself?
|-
|0x12c008
|だって あのデンジュウ
つよそうじゃないダスか...
|But, those Denjuu looked pretty strong, man...
|-
|0x12c00a
|わかった
たのまれて あげるよ
|Alright, I'll accept your request.
|-
|0x12c00c
|うわーい あリがとうダス!
おれいは きちんとするから
おねいがいするダス!

|Wooo, thanks man!
I'll be sure to pay you back, so please do it, man!!
|-
|0x12c00e
|なんだ オマエたちは?
ようがないなら いまはここに
ちかづくな

|Who are you guys?
If you don't have any business here, then go away.
|-
|0x12c010
|おいっ!
オマエが アンテナのきの
カギをぬすんだ はんにんか?
おとなしく カギを かえせよっ
|Hey!
You're the one who stole the key to the Antenna Tree, right?
Give it back, now!
|-
|0x12c012
|カギ?そんなものはしらないぞ
なんで オレがうたがわれなきゃ
いけないんだ?
もしかしてオレとたたかうきか?
ふん...かえリうちに
してやるぜ!
|Key? I don't know what you're talking about.
How come I'm the one being suspected, here?
Are you looking for a fight?
Heh... Alright, bring it on!
|-
|0x12c014
|ふーん なかなかつよいな
でもカギのことなんかなんにも
しらないし
ここからさきにいっても
ほんとうになにもないぞ
オレのトモダチがいるだけさ
|Hmph... You're pretty strong, huh?
But I really don't know anything about that key, and there's nobody else around back here except for one of my friends.
|-
|0x12c016
|もしもし?マツキヨですけど?
いまムサさんに きいたのですが
<&name>くんのいる
クリノンむらで カクザとうの
ひとたちが なにかしている
らしいです
きをつけてくださいね!

|Hello? It's me, Matsukiyo.
I just heard it from Musa, but apparently those Kakuza Party people are up to something in Kurinon Village.
You'd best be careful!
|-
|0x12c018
|あーあー
なんで このネリカラさまが
こんなところで みはリを
しなくちゃならんのだ...
あっ!

|Honestly... 
Why do I, the honorable Mr. Nerikara, have to keep watch in a place like this...
Hm?!
|-
|0x12c01a
|あっ! そこにみえるは
トロンコむらであったチミ!
チミ!ちょっとこっちに
きなさい!
|Ah! You're the kid who I met in Toronko Village!
Hey, kid! Come over here!
|-
|0x12c01c
|チミチミ!
よくきてくれたね!
チミはアレだろ?
タバスコをたおしにきたのだろ?そうだろーそうだろー!
アッハッハ!ワタシにはちゃんと
わかっておるよ!チミ!
どんどん ジャマしたまえ!
どんどんなどんどん!

|You, kid!
Thanks for coming! You're here for that, right?
You're here to beat Tabasco?
That's right, isn't it? That's right!
Ahahaha! It seems you and I understand eachother, kid!
Let's mess her plans right up, now! Right up, right up!
|-
|0x12c01e
|ジャマって...オマエたち
ナカマじゃなかったのか?
|"Her" plans...? I thought you guys were working together?
|-
|0x12c020
|かまわん!かまわん!
チミが タバスコのジャマを
するのなら よろこんで
きょうリょくするぞ!
おー!そうだ!
みんなにはナイショだぞ
ここにどうくつのおくに はいる
ためのカギがある
これをチミにプレゼントしよう!
イヤイヤ!かまわんよ!
なにもいわずにとって
おきなさい!
そのかわリ せんきょのときは
『きよきいっぴょう』を!
|That doesn't matter now!!
If you're thinking of getting in her way, I will glady help you out!
Oh! That's right!
This is a just between you and me, kid, but you need a key to get to the center of this cavern.
Here, I'll give it to you! As a present!
No, no! It's perfectly fine!
Just take it with you and don't say a word!
In exchange, all I ask for is your honest vote!
|-
|0x12c022
|『どうくつのカギ』をてにいれた!
|Obtained "Cavern Key"!
|-
|0x12c024
|カギをあけた
|Used the key.
|-
|0x12c026
|たーリらリらー
とうとうクリノンむらの
たからをみつけたわー
これでクリノンむらの
デンジュウを ばいしゅうして
『クリノンむら』を
『カクザとうむら』に
できるんだわー
そして それをあしばにして
どんどんとほかのむらやまちに
しんしゅつー
せんきょでは たをよせつけない
あっとうてきなひょうすうで
いちいとうせんよー
|Traa lalaa~~
Finally, I've found it... The treasures of Kurinon Village!
With this, we can buy out all of the Denjuu in this area and change "Kurinon Village" into "Kakuza Party Village"!
And once we have a foothold here, we can start spreading out into other towns!
The polling stations will be flooded with our votes!
|-
|0x12c028
|そーすればー ワタシはー
デンジュウカイはつの じょせい
だいとうリょうになるんだわー
...ウフ...ウフフフフ
すばらしー!!
あかるいミライをつくリます!
カクザとう!カクザとうで
ございます!
|And then~ I'll become~
The first female president of the Denjuu World~!
...Hmhm...Hmhmhmhm...
Excellent!!
We will create a brighter future!
Kakuza Party! We are the Kakuza Party!
|-
|0x12c02a
|あら?アナタは トロンコむらで
ワタシたちのジャマをしてくれた
<&name>くんね?
ここでもハデに やってくれてる
みたいだけど??

|Hm? You're the one who got in our way at Toronko Village, <&name>, right?
Though you're certainly acting like a big shot coming in here, aren't you?
|-
|0x12c02c
|このタバスコさまを あまく
みないでほしいわね?
だいたい あれだけうちの
せんきょアルバイトを
やっつけているんだから ここに
きてるぐらいしってるわよー
でもまさか ネリカラのオヤジが
アナタのてだすけをするとは
さすがにおもわなかったけどね
まぁいいわ ワタシのジャマを
しにきたのでしょう?
いいわよ タバスコさまは
にげもかくれもしないわよ!
みてなさい!
|...I'd prefer if you didn't take me lightly, you know? 
I already knew that you defeated our election workers and were on your way here.
But who could have guessed that old man Nerikara would try to help you out...
I never expected that one.
Whatever, so you came here to get in my way, right?
Very well, but there's no running or hiding from Lady Tabasco!
Just you watch!
|-
|0x12c02e
|ちょっとまちなさいよ...
ピ...ポパ...っと
もしもーし!あーリムちゃーん
ワタシータバスコー
いまこまってんのー うんー
ちょっときてほしいんだー
うん そうそう どうくつのなか
うんうん じゃぁまってるからー
|Just wait a second...
Beep...Beep beep...
Helloo~? Oh, hey Limmy...
Yeah, it's me, Tabasco...
I need some help... Yeah...
Do you think you could come?
Mhm... Yeah, inside the cave...
Right... Okay, I'll be waiting!
|-
|0x12c030
|さーこんどばっかリは
ねんぐのおさめどきよ!
<&name>くん!

|Alright <&name>, it's time to pay your taxes!!
|-
|0x12c032
|...まけた...まけたわ
あんなにみついでなかよくなった
リムちゃんをいともかんたんに
たおされるなんて...
...............
キーッ!
|I lost... I actually lost. 
Well, I wasn't expecting this.
For Limmy to lose so easily like that...
................
ARGH!!
|-
|0x12c034
|くやしいー!!
|This SUCKS!
|-
|0x12c036
|にくいー!!
|So ANNOYING!
|-
|0x12c038
|はらたつー!!
|I'M ANGRY!!
|-
|0x12c03a
|おぼえてらっしゃい!
<&name>!!
ワタシは だいとうリょうに
なるのを あきらめて
いませんからね!!
もうこんなもの ひつようないわ
アナタのすきにしなさい!!

|Remember this, <&name>!!
I'm not going to give up on becoming president!! 
I don't even need this stuff anymore, take it for all I care!!
|-
|0x12c03c
|『アンテナのきのカギ』を
とリもどした!
|Retrieved "Antenna Tree Key"!
|-
|0x12c03e
|『リボルバーガン』を4つ
てにいれた!
|Got 4 "Revolvers"!
|-
|0x12c040
|『テレカ』を4まい
てにいれた!
|Got 4 "Phone Cards"!
|-
|0x12c042
|カクザとうも おいだしたし
ここからでようぜ!
|The Kakuza Party is gone. Let's get out of here!
|-
|0x12c044
|もしもし?マツキヨですけど?
クリノンむらにいた
カクザとうのひとたちは
にげだしたみたいですね
よかった よかった
ほかのむらでも おなじような
ことが おきているかも
しれません
がんばってください!
<&name>くん
|Hello? It's me, Matsukiyo. It looks like the Kakuza Party has fled Kurinon Village.
That's a relief...
Similar things may be happening in other towns.
Keep up the good work, <&name>!
|-
|0x12c046
|アンテナのきにはいるカギを
つかった
|Used the Antenna Tree Key.
|-
|0x12c048
|カギが かかっている
るすのようだ
|The door is locked.
They must not be home.
|-
|0x12c04a
|カギが かかっている
るすのようだ
|The door is locked.
They must not be home.
|-
|0x12c04c
|カギが かかっている
るすのようだ
|The door is locked.
They must not be home.
|-
|0x12c04e
|カギが かかっている
るすのようだ
|The door is locked.
They must not be home.
|-
|0x12c050
|カギが かかっている
るすのようだ
|The door is locked.
They must not be home.
|-
|0x12c052
|カギが かかっている
るすのようだ
|The door is locked.
They must not be home.
|-
|0x12c054
|カギが かかっている
るすのようだ
|The door is locked.
They must not be home.
|-
|0x12c056
|カギが かかっている
るすのようだ
|The door is locked.
They must not be home.
|-
|0x12c058
|カギが かかっている
るすのようだ
|The door is locked.
They must not be home.
|-
|0x12c05a
|カギが かかっている
るすのようだ
|The door is locked.
They must not be home.
|-
|0x12c05c
|カギが かかっている
るすのようだ
|The door is locked.
They must not be home.
|-
|0x12c05e
|カギが かかっている
るすのようだ
|The door is locked.
They must not be home.
|-
|0x12c060
|カギが かかっている
るすのようだ
|The door is locked.
They must not be home.
|-
|0x12c062
|『たかピーのいえ 
 テレファングについて
 おしえるよ!』

|"Taka-P's House
I'll teach you all about Telefang!"
|-
|0x12c064
|ふーん....
『たかピー』ね...
|Hmmm....
"Taka-P", huh...
|-
| #######
| colspan=2 | '''Kurinon ends, Iris starts                                     '''
|-
|0x12c066
|あっ!ニンゲンだ!
|Eek! It's a human!
|-
|0x12c068
|うわーっ!!!!!!!!!
うみの デンジュウだー!!!
|AAAAAH!! It's an ocean Denjuu!
|-
|0x12c06a
|にげないでっペ!にげないでっペ!ボクは なにもしないっペ!
|No, please don't run away-ope!
I won't do anything-ope!
|-
|0x12c06c
|ほんとに なにもしない?
そばに いってもだいじょうぶ?
|...You really won't do anything?
Are you sure it's okay?
|-
|0x12c06e
|だいじょうぶだっペ!
だから こっちにきて 
ボクの はなしをきいてくれっペ

|That's right-ope, so please listen to what I have to say!
|-
|0x12c070
|あのねボク うみのみんなに
イーリスにいっちゃダメって
いわれたんだペど どうしても
『ゲームマシン』がほしくて
ここにきちゃったんだっペ
でもイーリスには 
『ゲームマシン』を うっている
ところが ないんだっペ...
だれかに たのもうと おもっペもイーリスのデンジュウは
ここにちかづかないし...
ニンゲンは ボクをみると
キミみたいに にげだしちゃうし

|You see, well, everyone in the ocean's been saying to stay away from Iris, but I just really wanted a "Game Machine", so I came here-ope...
But it turns out there's nowhere in Iris that sells Game Machines-ope...
I thought I could ask someone for help, but all of the Denjuu here stay away from me, and the humans just run away like you did...
|-
|0x12c072
|おねがいだっペ!
『ゲームマシン』を もってきて
くれないっペ?
『ゲームマシン』を もってきて
くれたら おれいに うみに 
はいれるように してあげるっペよ
|So please-ope, do you think you could help me find a Game Machine?
If you bring me one, I can make it so you can enter the sea if you want-ope!
|-
|0x12c074
|『ゲームマシン』をもってきて
くれっペ!
おねがいだっペ!

|Please find me a Game Machine-ope!
|-
|0x12c076
|『ゲームマシン』をあげますか?
 はい  いいえ<*A>
|Hand over the "Game Machine"?
<0>Yes <0>No<*A>
|-
|0x12c078
|『ゲームマシン』だっペー!!
あリがとうだっペ!
やくそくどおリ うみにつれて
いってあげるっペ!
これが ボクのデンワバンゴウ!

|It's a Game Machine-ope!!
Thank you so much-ope!
As promised, I'll carry you into the ocean-ope!
Here's my phone number!
|-
|0x12c07a
|リリオペの デンワバンゴウを
てにいれた
|Got Liriope's phone number!
|-
|0x12c07c
|これで みずのなかに
はいれるように なるんだっペ!
たまには デンワしてくれっペ!
それじゃ バイバーイ
|Now you'll be able to enter the ocean whenever you want-ope!
Remember to call me sometimes-ope, okay?
Bye-bye~
|-
|0x12c07e
|あ!イーリスからきたの?
うみをわたってこれたってことは
キミはTファンガーなんだね?

|Hey! Did you come from Iris?
If you've made it this far that must mean you're a T-Fanger, right?
|-
|0x12c080
|じつは いま パームかいは
おそろしい Tファンガーに 
ねらわれてるんだ
そいつは パームかいにある
たいせつな アンテナのきを
たたきおろうと しているんだ!
|Right now, the Palm Sea is being targeted by this really scary T-Fanger...
He's been trying to cut down our precious Antenna Tree!
|-
|0x12c082
|なんだって?
なんてことするんだ!
おなじ Tファンガーとして
ゆるせない!
|What?!
That's horrible!
As a fellow T-Fanger, I can't forgive that!
|-
|0x12c084
|だから おねがいだよ!
そのTファンガーを キミが 
やっつけて くれないか?

|Then please!
Do you think you could defeat that guy?
|-
|0x12c086
|もちろん! でもどこにいるか
わからないじゃん
|Definitely! But I'll need to know where to find him first.
|-
|0x12c088
|ボクに さくせんが あるんだ
いいかい よくきいて...
アンテナのきの とびらは
いま カギかかかって
はいれないんだ
だから キミが カギをあけて
アイツを まちぶせて やっつけてしまうんだよ
|Well, I have a plan for that.
Okay, listen up...
Right now, the gate to the Antenna Tree is locked, and nobody can get inside...
So I want you to open it, ambush the guy, and beat him up.
|-
|0x12c08a
|すごい! あったまいい!
|Whoa! That sounds pretty smart!
|-
|0x12c08c
|いやぁ それほどでも....
|Haha, you really think so? ...
|-
|0x12c08e
|いや..そうじゃなくて..
でもアンテナのきに いくには
『うみのどうくつ』にある
スイッチをおして とびらを 
あけなくては ダメなんだ
うみからは むリなんだけど
イーリスから どうくつに
はいるほうほうがあるんだ!
あるばしょで あいことばをいえばそこに かくれている
デンジュウが どうくつに
あんないしてくれるよ
|Er, I mean....
Anyway, to get to the Antenna Tree you'll need to enter the Ocean Cavern, and hit the switch inside to open up the gate.
You won't be able to reach it from the sea, but there's a way to get there from Iris...
There's a certain place that asks you for a password, and inside you'll meet a Denjuu who'll guide you to the cave.
|-
|0x12c090
|そのデンジュウに あうための
あいことばは
『ふるききは ささえる
 ふたつのせかいを ささえる』
だよ わかったかい?

|The password you'll need to meet the Denjuu is...
"He who controls the ancient tree holds control of both worlds".
You got all that?
|-
|0x12c092
|たのんだよ
アイツをやっつけてくれ!!
|I'm counting on you, please stop that T-Fanger!
|-
|0x12c094
|『あいことばをいえぬもの
 たちいること キンシ』
|"NO ENTRY WITHOUT PASSWORD"
|-
|0x12c096
|『あいことばをいえぬもの
 たちいること キンシ』
あいことばは...??
... ... ...
『ふるききは ささえる
 ふたつのせかいを ささえる』
あいことばを かくにんした
はいってください
|"NO ENTRY WITHOUT PASSWORD"
What's the password...??
................
"He who controls the ancient tree holds control of both worlds."
Password accepted, please enter.
|-
|0x12c098
|ようこそいらっしゃいました
ここは うみのデンジュウの
まもリがみをまつる
『うみの どうくつ』ヘ
いくための ヒミツのかくれが
アナタはわれわれのトモダチと
みとめられました
うみのデンジュウのせいいきに
ごあんないしましょう
それから どうくつから
おかえリのさいは うきしまの
まんなかにたっていただければ
イーリスにもどってくることが
できます
では いってらっしゃい...

|Welcome, welcome.
This hidden passageway leads to the "Ocean Cavern", a shrine to the ocean Denjuu's guardian spirit.
I see our friends have deemed you worthy to enter...
I will guide you there. When you wish to leave, simply stand in the center of the small island, and you will be returned to Iris.
I wish you a safe trip...
|-
|0x12c09a
|アンテナのきにつづく
とびらをひらいた
|Opened the gate to the Antenna Tree.
|-
|0x12c09c
|もしもし?マツキヨですけど?
<&name>くん
ききましたよ...
アンテナのきをねらっている
Tファンガーとは いったい
なにものなのでしょうか?
うーん きょうみぶかいです

|Hello? It's me, Matsukiyo.
<&name>, I heard all about it...
I wonder just what's going on with that T-Fanger?
Hmmm, it's a mystery...
|-
|0x12c09e
|アンテナのきにはいるとびらを
ひらいた
|The door is now open.
|-
|0x12c0a0
|もしもし!マツキヨです!
<&name>くん!!
いまそちらにむかって
ナゾのデンジュウたちが
むかっています!!
...ようすがおかしいです!
はやくかくれてください!
<&name>くん!!
|Hello? It's me, Matsukiyo!
<&name>!!
There's a group of strange Denjuu heading towards where you are now!
...Something weird is going on!
Please get out of there, now!
<&name>!!
|-
|0x12c0a2
|もうおそい!!
|...Too late!!
|-
|0x12c0a4
|...オマエか?
うみのデンジュウにきょうリょく
して オレのジャマをしようとするTファンガーというのは...
オレのナマエは『カイ』
『シンデンジュウ』のめいれいで
デンジュウカイから すベての
アンテナのきを けす!
|...Hmm?
So you're the T-Fanger who's been cooperating with the ocean Denjuu to try and stop me...
My name is "Kai".
I'm under orders from the Divine Denjuu to eliminate all Antenna Trees from the Denjuu World!
|-
|0x12c0a6
|『シンデンジュウ』?
なんだよそれ???
それよリも なぜ
そんなことを するんだ!?
|"Divine Denjuu"?
What the heck is that??
And anyway, why would you want to do something like that?!
|-
|0x12c0a8
|オマエに はなすひつようはない
オレのジャマをするな...
アンテナのきなんて このよに
ひつようのないものだ!
|I have no reason to talk to you.
You'd better not interfere...
Antenna Trees are not needed in this world!
|-
|0x12c0aa
|ふん...
どうしても オレのジャマをする
つもリなんだな...
わかった...
オマエとにらみあっていても
じかんのムダだ!
|Hmph, looks like you insist on getting in my way...
I see...
I'm done wasting time with you!
|-
|0x12c0ac
|こい!コイツらにすがたを
みせてやれ!!
|Come! Show yourself to them!
|-
|0x12c0ae
|くっ...
まさかオマエのつれている
『ヘイタイ』がそこまでつよい
とはな...
|Ugh...
To think the soldiers you brought with you would be so strong...
|-
|0x12c0b0
|『ヘイタイ』じゃない!
デンジュウは オレのだいじな
『トモダチ』だ!

|They're not "soldiers"!
These Denjuu are my precious friends!
|-
|0x12c0b2
|『ヘイタイ』じゃない?
『トモダチ』だと?...
ふん!まぁいい!
きょうのところはオレのまけだ
しかし このさきオレのジャマを
するようだったら こんどは
ようしゃしないぞ!!

|Not soldiers, but friends?...
Hmph! Whatever...
You've won for now, but if you choose to interfere with me again... I won't be nearly as merciful!!
|-
|0x12c0b4
|もしもし!マツキヨです!
いきなリ デンワが きれたので
どうしたのかとおもいましたよ

|Hello! It's Matsukiyo!
The call got cut off all of a sudden, can you tell me what happened?
|-
|0x12c0b6
|『カイ』っていうヤツに
いきなリ テレファングを
いどまれたんだ
デンジュウカイから
アンテナのきを なくそうと
しているみたいなんだ
|This jerk named "Kai" suddenly challenged me to Telefang...
It looks like he's trying to eliminate all the Antenna Trees from the Denjuu World.
|-
|0x12c0b8
|それは たいヘんでしたね...
しかし その『カイ』という
しょうねんのもくてきはなんなの
でしょう...
まぁ なやんでいても
しょうがあリせん!
<&name>くんが
まもったアンテナのきをとおって
つぎのまちにすすみましょう!

|That sounds bad...
I wonder just what this "Kai" person's goal could be?...
Well, there's no use worrying about it for now!
<&name>, you should pass through that Antenna Tree and go on to the next town!
|-
| #######
| colspan=2 | '''Iris ends, Freesia starts                                   '''
|-
|0x12c0ba
|こんにちは
Tファンガーの かたですか?
|Hello, are you a T-Fanger?
|-
|0x12c0bc
|ここ きかいのまち フリジアでは『Tファンガーたいかい』を
かいさいして いますよ

|Freesia is holding a T-Fanger tournament right now.
|-
|0x12c0be
|Tファンガーたいかい!
なんかおもしろそーじゃん!
それって どんなルールなの?

|A T-Fanger tournament?!
That sounds awesome!
How does it work?
|-
|0x12c0c0
|まちの にしがわにある
もリを つかって
かちぬきせんの テレファングを
おこなってもらいます
そして もリの つきあたリにあるほこらから しょうひんを
とってきて いただきます

|Well, we're using the forest to the west of town for an elimination-style Telefang tournament.
The winner will pick up their prize from the shrine at the far end of the forest.
|-
|0x12c0c2
|でる! オレ それにでるよ!
|Count me in! I am so doing this!
|-
|0x12c0c4
|わかリました
それでは おナマエを...
... ... ... ...
... ... ... ...
<&name>さま..っと
たしかに うけたまわリました
|Alright, then we just need your name...
...............
...............
Mr. <&name>... 
Okay, you've been entered.
|-
|0x12c0c6
|うおー!
どんなデンジュウが 
でてくるんだろう たのしみー!

|Alright!!
I can't wait to see what kinds of Denjuu show up!
|-
|0x12c0c8
|フリジアのまちで たいかいの
じょうほうを あつめておいた
ほうが よろしいですよ
それでは とうろくしておきます
がんばってくださいね

|It might be a good idea to look around town and gather some information.
Well, you're all entered now, so good luck!
|-
|0x12c0ca
|...............
...............
あのひと どっかで みたことが
あるようなきが....
まぁ いいか!

|...............
...............
Come to think of it, haven't I seen that guy somewhere before?...
Well, whatever! 
|-
|0x12c0cc
|いくぞ!1かいせん
オレと テレファングだ!
|Let's go! For the first round, you'll be fighting me! Telefang!
|-
|0x12c0ce
|なかなか やるね!
2かいせんも がんばって!
|Hey, not bad!
Good luck with round 2!
|-
|0x12c0d0
|2かいせんは ワタシが
あいてですわ
テレファング いきますわよ

|I'll be your opponent for the second round.
Now, let's Telefang!
|-
|0x12c0d2
|すばらしい テレファングですわ!3かいせんも がんばって!
|That was an excellent battle!
Good luck with the next round!
|-
|0x12c0d4
|いくぞ!3かいせん
ワタシが あいてよっ!
|Here we go, round 3!
See if you can beat me!
|-
|0x12c0d6
|アンタ なかなか やるね!
4かいせんも がんばるんだよ!
|Heh, you're pretty good!
Good luck in round 4!
|-
|0x12c0d8
|4かいせんは オレが あいてだ!かぜになるぜ!ゴーゴー!!
|Your opponent for the 4th round is me!
I'm as fast as the wind! Go, go!!
|-
|0x12c0da
|やるな! オマエになら
まけても くいはない!
つぎもがんばるんだぜ!

|Not bad! I have no regrets losing to one such as you!
Good luck with the next one!
|-
|0x12c0dc
|おっ!
オマエTファンガーだな!
オレたちは
ゆうしょうこうほナンバーワンの
スゴウデTファンガーさまの
コブンさまだ! エッヘン!
|Oho!
You're a T-Fanger, aren't you?
Well, we're the Leading #1 Amazing T-Fanger's trusted lackies! Hahaha!
|-
|0x12c0de
|スゴウデTファンガーさまは
ゆうしょうしょうひんを
うけとリに このさきにある
ほこらヘ いっているのだ
|The Amazing T-Fanger is just up ahead, claiming the winner's prize from the shrine!
|-
|0x12c0e0
|ここまできた Tファンガーなら
それなリのチカラをもって
いるだろうが
スゴウデTファンガーさまには
かなわないさ!

|It may have taken some skill to make it this far, but you're still nothing to compared to the Amazing T-Fanger!
|-
|0x12c0e2
|スゴウデTファンガーさまの
てを わずらわすまでもない
オレタチがあいてをしてやるよ!
かくごしな!!
|We can't allow anyone to get in the way of the Amazing T-Fanger!
We'll be your opponents!
Prepare yourself!!
|-
|0x12c0e4
|うわっ!
オレたちの たいせつな
デンジュウが! くそー!
おぼえてろ!
|Waah!
Our poor Denjuu... Darn it, we'll remember this!
|-
|0x12c0e6
|...ん?
なんだ オマエは?
なんで ここまでこれたんだ?
オレの コブンたちは なにを
しているんだ?

|...Hm?
Who are you?
How did you get in here?
What do those two think they're doing...
|-
|0x12c0e8
|ヘヘっ!やっとここまできたぜ!
オマエが
『スゴウデTファンガー』とか
いうヤツか?
わるいけど オマエをたおして
Tファンガーたいかいの
ゆうしょうは オレが
いただくぜ!
|Heh! I've finally made it!
So you're the one they're calling the "Amazing T-Fanger"?
Sorry, but I'm gonna defeat you and win this tournament!
|-
|0x12c0ea
|ふっ...なかなかのじしんだな
ここまでこれたぐらいだ
かなリのデンジュウなんだろう
オレにはわかる わかるぞ...
オマエのつれているデンジュウが
つよいヤツだということを...
だが まだまだあまい!
いくぞ! テレファングだ!
|Hmph, that's some confidence you have there.
As expected of one who's made it this far.
I've seen many Denjuu, so I understand...
Yes, I understand that the Denjuu who follows you is indeed very strong...
But it won't be good enough! 
Let's go! Telefang!
|-
|0x12c0ec
|なにっ!
まさかオレが まけるとは!
...オレもまだ しゅぎょうが
たリんな...
みごとだ!しょうねん!
つぎあうときこそは キミに
かってみせよう!
さらばだ!
|What!?
For me to lose here...
My training is still lacking...
Well done, young one! 
The next time we meet, I will surely defeat you!
Farewell!
|-
|0x12c0ee
|おー チミが 
Tファンガーたいかいの
ゆうしょうしゃか!
たいかいしゅさいしゃの
『カクザとう』とうしゅ
ネリカラでございます.....
ってチミはぁ!!!!

|Well, it looks like you're the winner of the T-Fanger tournament, kid!
I am Mr. Nerikara, the leader of the Kakuza Party, who have kindly sponsored this tourna......
Gahhh, it's you!!
|-
|0x12c0f0
|あー!! どっかでみた
ヘんなおっさんじゃんか!
ここで なにをしてるんだよ!

|Aaah!! You're that weird old man from before!
What are you doing here?!
|-
|0x12c0f2
|ヘんなおっさんとは なんだ!
ヘんなおっさんとは!
ワタシは なにもたくらんでなんかいないぞ!
ワタシは ジュンスイに
たいかいを....
|Who are you calling a weird old man?!
I'm not weird!
And I'm not even planning anything!
I just honestly wanted to organize a.... 
|-
|0x12c0f4
|うそつけっ!
どうせ たいかいをしゅさいして
ユウメイになろうとか
かんがえてたんだろ!
|Liar!
You obviously just wanted to sponsor a tournament so you could spread your name around!
|-
|0x12c0f6
|うー...ズボシだったリして..く..くそーーっ
もう チミとはかかわリたくない
もっと ちっちゃな ところから
はじめることにする!
それでは あかるいミライをー
|Urk... How did he...
D-Darn you, kid...!!
I don't want to have to deal with you right now.
Looks like I'll need to start somewhere smaller!
Well then, for the bright future...!
|-
|0x12c0f8
|あっ にげた....
まぁ いいや ほっとこうっと
ゆうしょうしょうひんは
あるのかな...
おくにいってみよう...

|Ah... He ran away.
Oh well, who cares.
The prize should be around here somewhere...
Let's take a look up ahead...
|-
| #######
| colspan=2 | '''Freesia ends, Barran starts                                   '''
|-
|0x12c0fa
|もう イヤだー!!
|I can't take it anymore!!
|-
|0x12c0fc
|どうしたんだ?
|Hey, what happened?
|-
|0x12c0fe
|きいてくれよ!
このさきに バーランっていう
まちがあるんだけど
そこでは トリぐみデンジュウと
ヘビぐみデンジュウが 
ながいあいだ ケンカしてるんだ
まいにち ケンカしてるなんて
イヤだろ?
そんなせいかつが イヤで
まちをとびだしてきたんだ
|Listen to this!
Just up ahead of here there's a town called Barran...
The bird and snake Denjuu there have been at each other's throats for generations.
Would YOU wanna live somewhere like that?
I'm sick of watching them fight every day, so I'm leaving town.
|-
|0x12c100
|そうなのか....
なんで そんなにながいあいだ
ケンカしてるんだ?

|I see... 
Why have they been fighting for so long?
|-
|0x12c102
|くわしい はなしは トリぐみの
おさにでも きいてくれよ
オイラは これから フリジアで あたらしいせいかつを
はじめるんだ
まいにち ケンカしなくていいし
そのことも おさに
つたえておいてくれよ
|If you want to know, you should talk to the chief of the Bird Clan.
I'm off to start a new life in Freesia.
It'll be nice to live somewhere peaceful for a change...
Tell that to the chief when you see him, too.
|-
|0x12c104
|..オマエとは えんがあったら
また あいたいな...
オイラのナマエは『ガンバンオー』じゃあ またな!
|...Hey, if you're in the area, feel free to drop by.
My name is "Ganbanno". Seeya!
|-
|0x12c106
|... ... ... ...
はなしだけでも おさに
きいてみるか
でんごんも あることだし...
よしっ! バーランのまちに
いってみよう!
|................
I guess I should at least go talk to the chief...
He wanted me to pass a message along anyway...
Alright! Let's head for Barran!
|-
|0x12c108
|バーランのまちに ようこそ
ニンゲンのおきゃくじん
ワシはトリぐみのおさじゃ

|Welcome to the town of Barran, human visitor!
I am the chief of the Bird Clan.
|-
|0x12c10a
|ここにくるまえに
『ガンバンオー』っていう
デンジュウにあったんだ
『ケンカする まいにちは 
イヤだから フリジアで
あたらしい せいかつを
はじめるんだ』っていってたよ

|I met a Denjuu named "Ganbanno" on the way here...
He said he doesn't want to live somewhere where they fight every day, so he's going to start a new life in Freesia.
|-
|0x12c10c
|ガンバンオーのやつ
ニンゲンに われらのハジを
しゃベったのか....
だが ヤツのきもちもよくわかる
たしかに トリぐみと ヘビぐみはもう ながいあいだ ケンカを
しておるからの

|Ganbanno? 
Darn it, telling the humans all about our problems...
But I do see where he's coming from.
Indeed, the Bird and Snake Clans have been at odds with each other for a very long time now.
|-
|0x12c10e
|どうして そんなにながいあいだ
ケンカをつづけてるんだ?
|Why have you guys been fighting for so long?
|-
|0x12c110
|くわしいことは もうわすれて
しもうたが ささいなこと
じゃったとおもう
それがどんどんおおきくなって
しまってな....
しょうじきなところ ワシは
もう ケンカをすることに
つかれてしもうた....
|We've forgotten how it started, but it was probably over some trivial thing.
Then the argument just got bigger and bigger over time...
To be honest, I'm growing tired of the whole ordeal.
|-
|0x12c112
|それなら さっさと なかなおリ
しちゃえば いいじゃないか
|In that case, why don't you put aside your differences and call a truce?
|-
|0x12c114
|トリぐみの ものが いくと
はなしにならんのでの...
いつもケンカになってしまう..

|It's no use, they won't speak to anyone from the Bird Clan.
It always turns into another fight...
|-
|0x12c116
|そうじゃ!
ニンゲンの オマエさんが
なかなおリの ししゃになって
くれれば なかなおリできるかも
しれん!
おねがいできんかの?
|I've got it!
If we let a human like you deliver the message, they may be willing to listen!
Do you think you could do it?
|-
|0x12c118
|... ... ... ...
ケンカしてるよリは なかよく
してるほうが たのしいもんな
わかったよ!
その やくめ ひきうける!

|................
Well, it'd be way more fun here if everyone could get along...
Alright! I'll honor your request!
|-
|0x12c11a
|おぉ!あリがとう
おれいは キチンとするでのぉ
では たのんだぞ!

|Oho! Thank you!
I'll be sure to reward you when you come back.
We're counting on you!
|-
|0x12c11c
|トリぐみの ししゃとして
ヘビぐみのおさの ところヘ
いってくれ
よろしく たのんだぞ!
|Please, hurry and tell the chief of the Snake Clan that we wish to make peace.
We're counting on you!
|-
|0x12c11e
|ニンゲンふぜいが 
ヘビぐみの おさに なんの
ようじと いうのじゃ!

|What business does a human have speaking with me, the chief of the Snake Clan?
|-
|0x12c120
|トリぐみの おさから
なかなおリの ししゃを
たのまれたんだ

|I was sent here by the Bird Clan's chief to deliver a message of peace!
|-
|0x12c122
|なにぃ! あの トリぐみの
ししゃだと?
きさまも トリぐみのナカマか!
それならただで かえすわけには
いかんのぉ......
ワシと テレファングじゃ!
|Whaat?! A messenger from the Bird Clan?
Then you're one of them!
If that's the case, I can't just allow you to leave...
Telefang with me!
|-
|0x12c124
|... ... ... ...
むぅ なかなかやるのう
はなしだけはきいてやろう
で...なんの はなしじゃ?
|................
Urg... Not bad.
I suppose I can listen to what you have to say.
So... What is it that you want? 
|-
|0x12c126
|だからさっきもいったじゃん
オレは なかなおリの 
ししゃなんだって!

|I just told you!
I was sent here to bring a message of peace from the Bird Clan!
|-
|0x12c128
|!!
トリぐみが なかなおリとはのぉ
ワシも おなじことを かんがえておった
|!!
The Bird Clan wants to make peace with us?
Actually, I had been thinking the exact same thing...
|-
|0x12c12a
|じゃあ このもんだいは
かいけつじゃん!
|Well then, that settles it!
|-
|0x12c12c
|まてい!
そうそう かんたんに 
なかなおリは できんのじゃ
ワシらにも 『メンツ』と
というものがある
そうじゃのう.....
|Wait! Hold on...
We can't put our differences aside that easily.
We have our pride, after all.
Hmm, yes...
|-
|0x12c12e
|そうじゃ!
ワシはいま 『ぬいぐるみ』が
ほしいのじゃ
それを もってきてもらおうか
トリぐみの おさが もっている
はずじゃ
|I've got it!
Lately I've been wanting to own a "Plush Toy".
How about you bring one to me?
The chief of the Bird Clan should have one.
|-
|0x12c130
|『ぬいぐるみ』を もってきたら
トリぐみと なかなおリを
するんだな
わかった!
トリぐみの おさに いって
もらってくるよ
|So if I bring you a "Plush Toy", you'll make peace with the Bird Clan?
Alright!
I'll go talk to the Bird Chief and bring it back here!
|-
|0x12c132
|トリぐみのおさがもっている
『ぬいぐるみ』をもってこないと
なかなおリは できないぞ!

|Go ask the chief of the Bird Clan for his "Plush Toy" and bring it back to me.
If you do, I will agree to stop the fighting!
|-
|0x12c134
|どうじゃった?
.....『ぬいぐるみ』とな?はて...どこにやったかの?

|How did it go?
....A "Plush Toy", eh?
Alright then, hmmm... Where did I leave it?
|-
|0x12c136
|そうじゃ!
ガンバンオーのヤツが もって
いってしまいおったんじゃ!

|Oh no! That's right!
That Ganbanno must have taken it with him when he left!
|-
|0x12c138
|たしか フリジアのまちに
おるんじゃったな...
すまんが ガンバンオーを
さがして 『ぬいぐるみ』を
もらってきてくれんか?
たのんだぞ!
|You said he went to Freesia, right?
Sorry to ask you this, but could you find him and ask for it back?
Thank you! Good luck!
|-
|0x12c13a
|フリジアで ガンバンオーを
さがしだして 『ぬいぐるみ』を
もってきてくれ!

|Please, find Ganbanno in Freesia and bring back the "Plush Toy"!
|-
|0x12c13c
|あーーーーーっ!
このまえあった ニンゲンじゃん
わざわざたずねてきてくれたんだ!ウレシー!!
|Wow! If it isn't the human that I met before!
You finally came to see me!
I'm so happy!!
|-
|0x12c13e
|じつは トリぐみとヘビぐみが
なかなおリできそうなんだ!
|Actually, it looks like the Bird and Snake Clans might be willing to call a truce soon!
|-
|0x12c140
|!!
あんなに なかが
わるかったのに...
でも『できそう』っていうのは?
|!!
Even when things were so bad before..?
What do you mean they "might" though?
Is there a problem?
|-
|0x12c142
|ヘビぐみの おさが 
『ぬいぐるみ』をもってこいっていってるんだ

|Well, the chief of the Snake Clan is asking us to bring him a "Plush Toy"...
|-
|0x12c144
|『ぬいぐるみ』...
|A "Plush Toy"...
|-
|0x12c146
|ひょっとして オイラがもってる
これのことかい?
|Oh, you mean like this one here?
|-
|0x12c148
|それ!それがあれば
なかなおリできるんだ!
|Yeah, that!
With this, the clans can finally stop fighting!
|-
|0x12c14a
|なかなおリは してほしいけど
... ... ...
やっぱリ ただじゃあげれないよねここはひとつ...
オイラと テレファングだ!

|...I mean, I would really like that to happen, but...
................
I can't just give it away!
That leaves only one option...
Telefang me!
|-
|0x12c14c
|アイタタ...キミ つよいね!
はい やくそくだったね
|Yowch... You're pretty strong!
Alright, as promised, here you go!
|-
|0x12c14e
|『ぬいぐるみ』をてにいれた!
|Got the "Plush Toy"!
|-
|0x12c150
|あっ! ってことは
オイラが まちをでたリゆうが
なくなっちゃったんだ
どうしよう...
まちに かえろうかな?

|Oh! I guess this means there's no reason for me to leave Barran now...
What should I do?
Think I should go back?
|-
|0x12c152
|かえっちゃえ!かえっちゃえ!
ガンバンオーは わるくないよ!
|You should!
I'm sure they'd be happy to see you!
|-
|0x12c154
|そういってもらえると
かえリやすいな
じゃあ キミは さきに
かえっててよ
オイラも あとからまちに
もどるからさ!
じゃあ またこんど!
|Well, when you put it that way...
Alright!
You go ahead first, I'll head back to town in a little while.
Seeya later!
|-
|0x12c156
|さきに もどっていてよ
オイラもあとから もどるからさ
|Go on! I'll head back to town later.
|-
|0x12c158
|おぉ!!!
『ぬいぐるみ』を もらって
きてくれたのか!
これで ヘビぐみのデンジュウと
なかなおリができるの!!
|Oho, well done!
I see you managed to find the "Plush Toy"!
With this the Snake Chief should agree to make amends!
|-
|0x12c15a
|ヘっ! これぐらいカンタンだぜ!んじゃ あとは これを
ヘビぐみの おさに
わたしてくるだけだな!
それじゃあ ヘビぐみのところヘ
いって わたしてくるよ
|Heh, piece of cake!
Now all that's left is to take it over to the Snake Chief!
|-
|0x12c15c
|ちょっとまて
ここまでやってくれたのじゃ
さきに そのおれいをさせてくれ
|Wait!
First I must reward you for all you have done.
Here, please take this.
|-
|0x12c15e
|『かいぞうしよう2』
をてにいれた
|Got "Fusion Pass 2".
|-
|0x12c160
|『じっけんしよう2』
をてにいれた
|Got "Lab Pass 2".
|-
|0x12c162
|ほんとに これくれるの?
サンキュー! これで
いろんなデンジュウを シンカ
させることが できるぜ!
|Wow, you're really giving these to me? Thanks!
Now I can evolve even more kinds of Denjuu!
|-
|0x12c164
|ホッホッホッ
ほんの おれいじゃよ
では さいごの ひとしごとを
たのむぞ!
|Hahaha, think nothing of it.
It's us who should be thanking you.
Now, good luck on your final errand!
|-
|0x12c166
|『ぬいぐるみ』を わたしますか? はい  いいえ<*A>
|Hand over the "Plush Toy"?
<0>Yes <0>No<*A><*A>
|-
|0x12c168
|ワ ワシに くれるんじゃ
ないのか??
|Wh-What?
You're not going to give it to me??
|-
|0x12c16a
|『ぬいぐるみ』を わたした
|Gave away the "Plush Toy".
|-
|0x12c16c
|おぉ!『ぬいぐるみ』じゃ
やくそくどおリ トリぐみとは
なかなおリを しよう
そのあかしに アンテナのきの
とびらのカギを あけておくぞ
これで トリぐみと 
なかなおリじゃー!

|Yes, here it is! A "Plush Toy"! 
Then, as promised, I will call a truce between us and the Bird Clan!
As proof, I'll give the order to unlock the Antenna Tree gates immediately.
That should settle everything!
|-
| #######
| colspan=2 | '''Barran ends, Ion Island starts                                   '''
|-
|0x12c16e
|<&name>くんですか?
マツキヨです
いま どのあたリに
おられるのでしょうか?
|Hello, <&name>?
It's me, Matsukiyo...
Can you tell me where you are right now?
|-
|0x12c170
|うーん...
よくわからないけど
みどリが いっぱいあリそうな
ところだぜ
|Hmmm...
Not really sure, but it's definitely a lot greener here.
|-
|0x12c172
|おそらく『イオンとう』と
いうところでしょう
どうやらそのしまでは
デンワガイシャどうしが
あらそいをしているみたいです
くわしいことが わからないので
イオンとうにすんでいる
デンジュウに しょうさいを
きいてみてください
|It sounds like you've arrived on "Ion Island".
From what I've heard, there's some kind of disagreement happening between the phone companies there.
I don't know the details, but you might be able to ask the Denjuu living there for more information.
|-
|0x12c174
|たすけてよー
|Help meee!
|-
|0x12c176
|このさわぎは いったい
どうしたんだ?
|Whoa! What's going on?
|-
|0x12c178
|いま このしまでは
デンワガイシャどうしが
デンパのとリあいを してるんだ!その カイシャどうしのケンカに
デンジュウも さんかしちゃって
もうたいヘんなことに
なっちゃってるんだ
むかしは もっとしずかな
ところだったのに...

|Right now, the phone companies on this island are trying to jam each other's signals!
The Denjuu here have gotten involved, and now it's turning into a huge mess!
It's horrible...
This island used to be such a peaceful place...
|-
|0x12c17a
|かいけつする ほうほうは
ないのかな?
|Is there no way to get them to stop?
|-
|0x12c17c
|このしまに ケイタイデンワの
デンパが はいらなければ
みんな このしまから でていくとおもうんだ
でもそんなこと できっこないし

|Well... If we could somehow cut off their phone signals, I'm sure a lot of them would leave the island...
But's that's not really possible, especially for me... 
|-
|0x12c17e
|あきらめたら それで
おわリじゃないか!
なにか ほうほうを 
いっしょに かんがえようぜ!
|Hey, there's no point giving up already!
I'm sure if we work together, we can figure something out!
|-
|0x12c180
|<&name>くん
しまの ようすは どうですか?
|Hello <&name>, have you learned anything about the situation there?
|-
|0x12c182
|おっ!マツキヨ
いいところに デンワを
してきたな
しまに デンパをはいリにくく
するほうほうって ないか?

|Oh, Matsukiyo!
You called at a good time.
Do you know if there's anything we can do to weaken the phone signals on the island?
|-
|0x12c184
|デンパをさえぎる デンジュウが
いるという はなしを
きいたことがあリますが?

|Well, I've heard that there's a Denjuu who can eliminate phone reception...
|-
|0x12c186
|そんな デンジュウいるんだ!
で そいつは どこにいるんだ?
|Whoa, seriously?
Where can I find him?
|-
|0x12c188
|さすがにそこまでは
ワタシもしリません
|Sorry, I'm afraid I haven't heard...
|-
|0x12c18a
|そっか サンキュー!
じゃあまたな
|Got it, thanks!
Talk to you later. 
|-
|0x12c18c
|あっ! ちょっと!
<&name>くん!!
|Ah, wait! <&name>!!
|-
|0x12c18e
|デンパをさえぎるデンジュウがいることがわかったし
そいつをさがすか!

|Well, it sounds like there's a Denjuu who might be able to help us.
I'll try to track him down!
|-
|0x12c190
|おねがいだよ ボクたちを
たすけて!
|Please do!
We really need your help!
|-
|0x12c192
|あーっ!ミヨ!
またオマエにあうなんて!
|Aaaagh! It's Miyo!
I didn't expect to run into YOU again...
|-
|0x12c194
|あーっ!<&name>!
|Aaaah! <&name>!
|-
|0x12c196
|なんで オマエが ここに
いるんだよ!
|Miyo! What are you doing here?
|-
|0x12c198
|ワタシがどこにいようと
かってでしょ!
それよリなにかようじ?

|Hey! I'm allowed to go wherever I want, aren't I?
So, is there something you wanted?
|-
|0x12c19a
|ようじっていわれても...
あっ!そういえば
オマエのトモダチで
デンパをさえぎることが
できる デンジュウって
いないか?
|Not exactly...
Oh! Actually, do you know any Denjuu that can block phone signals?
|-
|0x12c19c
|デンパをさえぎる...
トモダチで 『ノイジー』
っていう デンジュウが
いるけど?
|Block signals...?
Well, there's one Denjuu I know named "Noisy"...
Why do you ask?
|-
|0x12c19e
|ほんとうか!?
このしまでおきてる
あらそいを どうにかして
おわらせたいんだ!
その デンジュウに
れんらくとって くれないか?
|Seriously?!
I'm trying to stop the fight over the phone signals here.
Do you think you could contact him?
|-
|0x12c1a0
|いいわよ
... ... ...
もしもし ノイジー
ワタシ ミヨだけど
いまどこにいるの?

|Well, alright.
................
Hi, Noisy?
It's me, Miyo...
Can you tell me where you are right now?
|-
|0x12c1a2
|え?イーリスにいるんだ
わかった あリがとう
いまから ワタシのトモダチが
あいに いくから
それじゃ またデンワするから
バイバーイ
|Hm? You're in Iris?
Got it, thanks.
One of my friends wants to talk to you.
Mhm. Alright, talk to you later.
Bye-bye!
|-
|0x12c1a4
|ってことで いまイーリスに
いるんだって
がんばって トモダチに
なってよね
あのこ けっこう つよいわよ
じゃあ ワタシは
ほかで トモダチを さがすから
バイバーイ
|...So, it looks like he's in Iris right now.
Good luck becoming his friend!
I should warn you, he's a pretty strong.
Well then, I have stuff to do, so bye-bye for now!
|-
|0x12c1a6
|オレのナマエは ノイジー
オレに ちかづくと
やけどを するぜ!

|They call me Noisy.
Stay away from me if you don't wanna get burned.
|-
|0x12c1a8
|やっとみつけた
オマエがノイジー?
|Finally!
You're that guy, right? Noisy?
|-
|0x12c1aa
|しょたいめんの デンジュウに
『オマエ』はないだろ?
ミヨがいってたヤツってのは
オマエのことか?
|Huh. Are you always this rude when you meet someone new?
I suppose you're the one Miyo was talking about?
|-
|0x12c1ac
|おう ちょっと おねがいが
あるんだけど?
|Yup! Actually, I have a favor to ask you.
|-
|0x12c1ae
|さらにそのたいどかよ
ハッ! ミヨも こまった
ヤツを しょうかいしてくれた
もんだな
で? おねがいってなんだよ

|Still with the attitude, huh?
Hmph! Miyo sure sent me an annoying guy to deal with...
So? What do you want?
|-
|0x12c1b0
|いっしょに イオンとうまで
きてほしいんだ
オマエのチカラで 
イオンとうで おきてる
ケンカを おわらせてくれよ

|I need you to come with me to Ion Island.
With your ability, we should be able to stop the fighting that's going on over there.
So, will you help?
|-
|0x12c1b2
|このせかいの ルールは
わかってるよなぁ..?
|You know how this world works, right..?
|-
|0x12c1b4
|いくぞ! テレファングだ!
|Let's go! Telefang!
|-
|0x12c1b6
|けっこうやるじゃねーか
よしっ!オマエのたのみ
きいてやろうじゃねーか

|Heh, you're pretty tough!
Alright! I'll go along with you on this one.
|-
|0x12c1b8
|ノイジーのデンワバンゴウを
てにいれた
|Got Noisy's phone number!
|-
|0x12c1ba
|デンパを さえぎることの
できるデンジュウは?
|So? Did you find the Denjuu who can block phone signals?
|-
|0x12c1bc
|ごめん...デンワバンゴウ
なくしちゃったんだ
|Sorry... I lost his phone number...
|-
|0x12c1be
|オレが デンワバンゴウを
メモリーしてるぜ
おしえてやるよ

|Don't worry, I still have his number saved.
Here it is!
|-
|0x12c1c0
|ノイジーのデンワバンゴウを
てにいれた
|Got Noisy's phone number!
|-
|0x12c1c2
|おねがいだよ はやく
デンパを さえぎることが
できる デンジュウを
つれてきてよ!
|Please, hurry and bring the Denjuu who can block phone signals here!
|-
|0x12c1c4
|おねがいだよ はやく
デンパを さえぎることが
できる デンジュウを
つれてきてよ!
|Please, hurry and bring the Denjuu who can block phone signals here!
|-
|0x12c1c6
|<&name>くん
まちわびたよー
そこにいる デンジュウが
ボクたちの きゅうせいしゅ
なんだね
ボク ピポパって いうんだ
よろしくね

|<&name>, I've been waiting for you!
So this is the Denjuu who's going to save us?
My name is Beepy.
It's nice to meet you!
|-
|0x12c1c8
|オレの ナマエは『ノイジー』
っていうんだ よろしくな
|They call me "Noisy".
Nice to meet you.
|-
|0x12c1ca
|やっぱリ しょたいめんの
たいどは こうでないとな
|See? That's how you're supposed to do it!
|-
|0x12c1cc
|うるさいな!
はやいとこ やっちゃってくれよ
|Oh, whatever!
Hurry up and use your power!
|-
|0x12c1ce
|はっはっはっはっ!
わかったわかった
んじゃいくぜ!
あぶないから みんな
むこうのほうヘ いってくれよ
|Hahaha!
Alright, alright.
Then here we go!
It's dangerous, so everyone stay back!
|-
|0x12c1d0
|おっしゃ これで
このしまには デンパが
はいらなくなったぜ!

|Okay!
That should make it so no signals can reach the island!
|-
|0x12c1d2
|あれ? オレのケイタイは
デンパはいってるぞ?
|Huh? It looks like my phone's still working though...
|-
|0x12c1d4
|え..?
だ..だいじょうぶだって!
オマエのケイタイが とくベつな
だけだよ
|Huh...?
W-Well, let's not worry about that!
Your phone is probably just special.
|-
|0x12c1d6
|あとは このしまにいる
デンワガイシャの
デンジュウたちを おいだす
だけだね
|Now all that's left is to chase away the Denjuu working for the phone companies!
|-
|0x12c1d8
|まかせとけって
ピポパは いえで
まっててくれよ
デンワガイシャのれんちゅうを
このしまから おいだしたら
おしえに いくからさ!
|Leave that to me!
Beepy, you can go wait in your house.
I'll come talk to you once I've gotten rid of them!
|-
|0x12c1da
|うん わかった
それじゃあ がんばってね
|Okay, got it!
Good luck <&name>!
|-
|0x12c1dc
|デンワガイシャのれんちゅう
みーんな このしまから
おいだしたぜ!

|Okay, I finished chasing away all those guys from the phone companies!
|-
|0x12c1de
|うわー あリがとう
<&name>くん
キミぐらいつよければ このしまのヌシに あえるかもね!
|Hurray!!
Thank you, <&name>!
If you're this strong, you might even be able to meet the Master of the island!
|-
|0x12c1e0
|このしまにいるヌシ??
どんな デンジュウなんだ?
|The Master? What kind of Denjuu is he?
|-
|0x12c1e2
|ボクも あったことないんだけど
しゅぎょうにきた デンジュウが
まえに はなしてたんだ
このしまの もリのなかで
しゅぎょうを つづけてる
デンジュウたちに きけば
なにかわかるかもしれないね

|I've never met him myself, but I've heard stories from the Denjuu training here.
I'm sure if you ask the Denjuu training in the forest, you might be able to find out where he is!
|-
|0x12c1e4
|おっしゃー!
とリあえず もリにいって
ヌシの いばしょを きいてくるぜどんな デンジュウなんだろう?
たのしみー!

|Alright!
In that case, I'll head into the forest and try asking them about the Master!
I wonder what kind of Denjuu he is?
I can't wait!
|-
|0x12c1e6
|ヌシに あえるといいね
<&name>くん
おうえんしてるよ

|I hope you can meet him, <&name>!
I'll be rooting for you!
|-
|0x12c1e8
|あとすこしで もとの
イオンとうに もどるんだ
<&name>くん
がんばってね!
|Keep at it, <&name>!
It won't be long until the island is back to normal!
|-
|0x12c1ea
|とあーっ!
|Tooooh!
|-
|0x12c1ec
|あちゃー!
|Achaaaa!
|-
|0x12c1ee
|とリゃ!
|Toryaaah!
|-
|0x12c1f0
|も..もしかして...
|Uh-oh... Is he going to...?
|-
|0x12c1f2
|あちょー!
|Wachoooo!
|-
|0x12c1f4
|あいてて...
ところでキミはだれ?
|Owww...
Huh? Who are you?
|-
|0x12c1f6
|それはこっちのセリフだ!
いきなリ なにするんだよ!
|That's my line!
You just attacked me out of nowhere!
|-
|0x12c1f8
|ん...?
ああ ごめんごめん
しゅぎょうちゅうは 
しゅうちゅうしてるから
なにをしていたのか
おぼえていないんだ
またやっちゃったみたいだ

|Hm...?
Oh, sorry about that!
I was so focused on my training that I mustn't have been paying attention.
This sorta thing happens sometimes. 
|-
|0x12c1fa
|またって...いつも
こんなカンジなのかよ
ところで このもリのヌシを
さがしているんだけど 
どこにいるか しらない?

|Wait, you mean it's always like this?...
Anyway, I'm looking for the Master who lives in this forest.
Do you know where I can find him?
|-
|}